app/app/docs/content/platform-n8n-chat-setup.md, before:

---
title: Setting Up n8n Chat Assistant
category: Archestra Platform
subcategory: Practical Examples
order: 6
description: Step-by-step guide to configure an n8n workflow automation expert using Archestra's chat feature
---

Archestra Platform includes a built-in chat feature that can be configured as an n8n automation expert. This guide walks you through setting up a chat assistant that helps you build, debug, and manage n8n workflows using the n8n MCP server.

## Overview

By the end of this guide, you'll have:

- A dedicated n8n expert chat agent
- Access to all n8n MCP tools directly in the chat
- Pre-configured system prompt with n8n expertise
- Quick-action prompts for common tasks

The chat assistant can help you:

- Design and build n8n workflows
- Debug node configurations
- Understand n8n best practices
- Search through n8n templates
- Validate workflow structure

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- A running Archestra Platform instance
- An n8n instance (local or cloud)
- An n8n API key
- An Anthropic API key

## Step 1: Configure Anthropic API Key

The chat feature requires an Anthropic API key to function.

1. Navigate to **Settings → Chat**
2. Enter your Anthropic API key in the "API Key" field
3. Click **Save API Key**
4. Verify the "API key is configured" message appears

> **Note:** This is a one-time setup. The API key is stored securely and used for all chat conversations.

## Step 2: Create n8n Agent

Create a dedicated agent for n8n assistance:

1. Go to the **Agents** page
2. Click **Create Agent**
3. Enter a name like "n8n Assistant" or "Workflow Expert"
4. Click **Save**

Keep this agent dedicated to n8n tasks for better organization.

## Step 3: Add n8n MCP Server

You need to install the n8n MCP server to give your agent access to n8n tools.

1. Go to **MCP Registry → Add MCP Server → Local**
2. Configure the following fields:

   **Name:**

   ```
   n8n
   ```

   **Command:**

   ```
   npx
   ```

   **Arguments:**

   ```
   n8n-mcp
   ```

   **Environment Variables:**

   ```
   MCP_MODE=stdio
   LOG_LEVEL=error
   N8N_API_KEY=<your-n8n-api-key>
   N8N_API_URL=<your-n8n-url>
   DISABLE_CONSOLE_OUTPUT=true
   ```

3. Click **Install**

### Getting Your n8n API Key

To find your n8n API key:

1. Open your n8n instance
2. Click your profile picture or menu
3. Go to **Settings → n8n API**
4. Generate a new API key or copy your existing one

**Example n8n API URL formats:**

- Local: `http://localhost:5678`
- Cloud: `https://your-instance.app.n8n.cloud`
- Self-hosted: `https://n8n.yourdomain.com`

## Step 4: Assign n8n System Prompt

Archestra includes a pre-configured "n8n Expert" system prompt that provides comprehensive n8n knowledge.

1. Go to **Settings → Chat → Prompt Library**
2. Find the **"n8n Expert"** system prompt (it's pre-installed)
3. Review the prompt content to understand what expertise it provides
4. Go back to the **Agents** page
5. Find your n8n agent
6. Click the **message icon (💬)** on the agent card
7. In the dialog, select **"n8n Expert"** from the "System Prompt" dropdown
8. Click **Save Configuration**

### What the n8n Expert Prompt Does

The n8n Expert system prompt includes:

- Deep knowledge of n8n workflow design patterns
- Best practices for node configuration
- Expertise in MCP tool usage
- Validation and debugging strategies
- Understanding of n8n templates and examples
- Knowledge of common n8n integrations

## Step 5: Assign n8n MCP Tools to Agent

Make all n8n MCP tools available to your agent:

1. Go to the **Agents** page
2. Click on your n8n agent to open details
3. Navigate to the **Tools** tab or configuration
4. Find the n8n MCP server in the list
5. Select **all n8n MCP tools**
6. Click **Save Configuration**

Common n8n MCP tools include:

- `search_nodes` - Search for available n8n nodes
- `get_node_essentials` - Get node configuration details
- `search_templates` - Find workflow templates
- `validate_workflow` - Validate workflow structure
- `create_workflow` - Create new workflows
- `list_workflows` - List existing workflows
- And many more...

## Step 6: Add Regular Prompts (Optional)

Archestra includes pre-configured regular prompts for quick n8n actions:

1. Go to the **Agents** page
2. Click the **message icon (💬)** on your n8n agent
3. Under "Regular Prompts", select:
   - **"Check n8n Connectivity"** - Tests connection to your n8n instance
   - **"Create Demo AI Agent Workflow"** - Builds a sample workflow

4. Click **Save Configuration**

These prompts will appear as suggestion buttons when you start a new chat.

## Step 7: Start Using Your n8n Chat Assistant

You're all set! Now you can start chatting with your n8n expert:

1. Navigate to the **Chat** page
2. Click **New Chat** or select the agent dropdown
3. Choose your "n8n Assistant" agent
4. Click on a suggested prompt or type your own message

## Troubleshooting

### Agent Outputs XML Tool Commands Instead of Calling Tools

**Problem:** Agent responds with XML-formatted tool commands instead of actually executing the tools.

**Solution:**

1. Go to **Agents** page
2. Find your n8n agent
3. Verify that n8n MCP tools are assigned to the agent
4. If tools are not assigned, configure them and save
5. Start a new conversation

### "Anthropic API Key Required" Message

**Problem:** Chat page shows a message about missing API key.

**Solution:**

1. Go to **Settings → Chat**
2. Enter your Anthropic API key
3. Click **Save API Key**
4. Return to the Chat page

### Agent Gives Generic Responses

**Problem:** Agent doesn't seem to have n8n expertise.

**Solution:**

1. Confirm the "n8n Expert" system prompt is assigned to your agent
2. Go to **Agents** page → Click message icon → Verify system prompt
3. If not assigned, select it and save
4. Start a new conversation to see the changes

## Next Steps

Now that you have your n8n chat assistant set up:

- **Explore templates**: Ask your assistant to search for workflow templates
- **Learn best practices**: Ask questions about n8n concepts and patterns
- **Build workflows**: Start creating real workflows with step-by-step guidance
- **Share with team**: Create multiple agents for different team members
- **Customize prompts**: Create your own regular prompts for common tasks

## Related Documentation

- [Chat and Prompt Library](/docs/platform-chat-prompt-library) - Learn more about the chat feature and prompt management
- [Agents](/docs/platform-agents) - Understanding agents and their configuration
- [n8n Security Example](/docs/platform-n8n-example) - Using Archestra as a proxy for n8n workflows

Commit message:

docs: troubleshooting policies issues for chat

app/app/docs/content/platform-n8n-chat-setup.md, after:

---
title: Setting Up n8n Chat Assistant
category: Archestra Platform
subcategory: Practical Examples
order: 6
description: Step-by-step guide to configure an n8n workflow automation expert using Archestra's chat feature
---

Archestra Platform includes a built-in chat feature that can be configured as an n8n automation expert. This guide walks you through setting up a chat assistant that helps you build, debug, and manage n8n workflows using the n8n MCP server.

## Overview

By the end of this guide, you'll have:

- A dedicated n8n expert chat agent
- Access to all n8n MCP tools directly in the chat
- Pre-configured system prompt with n8n expertise
- Quick-action prompts for common tasks

The chat assistant can help you:

- Design and build n8n workflows
- Debug node configurations
- Understand n8n best practices
- Search through n8n templates
- Validate workflow structure

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have:

- A running Archestra Platform instance
- An n8n instance (local or cloud)
- An n8n API key
- An Anthropic API key

## Step 1: Configure Anthropic API Key

The chat feature requires an Anthropic API key to function.

1. Navigate to **Settings → Chat**
2. Enter your Anthropic API key in the "API Key" field
3. Click **Save API Key**
4. Verify the "API key is configured" message appears

> **Note:** This is a one-time setup. The API key is stored securely and used for all chat conversations.

## Step 2: Create n8n Agent

Create a dedicated agent for n8n assistance:

1. Go to the **Agents** page
2. Click **Create Agent**
3. Enter a name like "n8n Assistant" or "Workflow Expert"
4. Click **Save**

Keep this agent dedicated to n8n tasks for better organization.

## Step 3: Add n8n MCP Server

You need to install the n8n MCP server to give your agent access to n8n tools.

1. Go to **MCP Registry → Add MCP Server → Local**
2. Configure the following fields:

   **Name:**

   ```
   n8n
   ```

   **Command:**

   ```
   npx
   ```

   **Arguments:**

   ```
   n8n-mcp
   ```

   **Environment Variables:**

   ```
   MCP_MODE=stdio
   LOG_LEVEL=error
   N8N_API_KEY=<your-n8n-api-key>
   N8N_API_URL=<your-n8n-url>
   DISABLE_CONSOLE_OUTPUT=true
   ```

3. Click **Install**

### Getting Your n8n API Key

To find your n8n API key:

1. Open your n8n instance
2. Click your profile picture or menu
3. Go to **Settings → n8n API**
4. Generate a new API key or copy your existing one

**Example n8n API URL formats:**

- Local: `http://localhost:5678`
- Cloud: `https://your-instance.app.n8n.cloud`
- Self-hosted: `https://n8n.yourdomain.com`

## Step 4: Assign n8n System Prompt

Archestra includes a pre-configured "n8n Expert" system prompt that provides comprehensive n8n knowledge.

1. Go to **Settings → Chat → Prompt Library**
2. Find the **"n8n Expert"** system prompt (it's pre-installed)
3. Review the prompt content to understand what expertise it provides
4. Go back to the **Agents** page
5. Find your n8n agent
6. Click the **message icon (💬)** on the agent card
7. In the dialog, select **"n8n Expert"** from the "System Prompt" dropdown
8. Click **Save Configuration**

### What the n8n Expert Prompt Does

The n8n Expert system prompt includes:

- Deep knowledge of n8n workflow design patterns
- Best practices for node configuration
- Expertise in MCP tool usage
- Validation and debugging strategies
- Understanding of n8n templates and examples
- Knowledge of common n8n integrations

## Step 5: Assign n8n MCP Tools to Agent

Make all n8n MCP tools available to your agent:

1. Go to the **Agents** page
2. Click on your n8n agent to open details
3. Navigate to the **Tools** tab or configuration
4. Find the n8n MCP server in the list
5. Select **all n8n MCP tools**
6. Click **Save Configuration**

Common n8n MCP tools include:

- `search_nodes` - Search for available n8n nodes
- `get_node_essentials` - Get node configuration details
- `search_templates` - Find workflow templates
- `validate_workflow` - Validate workflow structure
- `create_workflow` - Create new workflows
- `list_workflows` - List existing workflows
- And many more...

## Step 6: Add Regular Prompts (Optional)

Archestra includes pre-configured regular prompts for quick n8n actions:

1. Go to the **Agents** page
2. Click the **message icon (💬)** on your n8n agent
3. Under "Regular Prompts", select:
   - **"Check n8n Connectivity"** - Tests connection to your n8n instance
   - **"Create Demo AI Agent Workflow"** - Builds a sample workflow

4. Click **Save Configuration**

These prompts will appear as suggestion buttons when you start a new chat.

## Step 7: Start Using Your n8n Chat Assistant

You're all set! Now you can start chatting with your n8n expert:

1. Navigate to the **Chat** page
2. Click **New Chat** or select the agent dropdown
3. Choose your "n8n Assistant" agent
4. Click on a suggested prompt or type your own message

## Troubleshooting

### Agent Outputs XML Tool Commands Instead of Calling Tools

**Problem:** Agent responds with XML-formatted tool commands instead of actually executing the tools.

**Solution:**

1. Go to **Agents** page
2. Find your n8n agent
3. Verify that n8n MCP tools are assigned to the agent
4. If tools are not assigned, configure them and save
5. Start a new conversation

### "Anthropic API Key Required" Message

**Problem:** Chat page shows a message about missing API key.

**Solution:**

1. Go to **Settings → Chat**
2. Enter your Anthropic API key
3. Click **Save API Key**
4. Return to the Chat page

### Agent Gives Generic Responses

**Problem:** Agent doesn't seem to have n8n expertise.

**Solution:**

1. Confirm the "n8n Expert" system prompt is assigned to your agent
2. Go to **Agents** page → Click message icon → Verify system prompt
3. If not assigned, select it and save
4. Start a new conversation to see the changes

### "Tool invocation blocked: context contains untrusted data" Error

**Problem:** When the agent attempts to use an n8n MCP tool (like `search_nodes`), you receive an error:
```
Tool invocation blocked: context contains untrusted data
```

**Solution:**

This error occurs when tool invocation policies block the tool call due to security restrictions. To resolve:

1. Navigate to **Settings → Tools**
2. Find the n8n MCP tools in the list
3. Enable or adjust the permissions for the tools you want to use
4. Save the configuration
5. Return to your chat conversation and try again

> **Note:** Archestra's security policies protect against unauthorized tool usage. You may need to explicitly allow certain MCP tools based on your organization's security requirements.

## Next Steps

Now that you have your n8n chat assistant set up:

- **Explore templates**: Ask your assistant to search for workflow templates
- **Learn best practices**: Ask questions about n8n concepts and patterns
- **Build workflows**: Start creating real workflows with step-by-step guidance
- **Share with team**: Create multiple agents for different team members
- **Customize prompts**: Create your own regular prompts for common tasks

## Related Documentation

- [Chat and Prompt Library](/docs/platform-chat-prompt-library) - Learn more about the chat feature and prompt management
- [Agents](/docs/platform-agents) - Understanding agents and their configuration
- [n8n Security Example](/docs/platform-n8n-example) - Using Archestra as a proxy for n8n workflows
